Monitor notification rules (#28380)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/monitors/notify/notification_rules.md

---
title: Notification Rules
further_reading:
- link: "/monitors/notify/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Configure monitor notifications"
- link: "/monitors/settings/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Monitor Settings"
---

## Overview

> Monitor notification rules are predefined sets of conditions that automate the process of alerting your team based on predefined conditions and tags. Instead of configuring notification recipients and routing for every monitor individually, Notification rules allow you to define the notification logic and recipients in one place and automatically route all monitor events with matching tags to that list of handles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Monitor notification rules are predefined sets of conditions that automate the process of alerting your team based on predefined conditions and tags. Instead of individually configuring notification recipients and routing for every monitor, notification rules allow you to define the notification logic and recipients in one place and automatically route all monitor events with matching tags to that list of handles.
```

## Creating notification rules

> <div class="alert alert-warning">You must  have  <a href="/account_management/rbac/permissions/#monitors"><code>monitor_config_policy_write</code> permission</a> to create a rule.</div>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<div class="alert alert-warning">You must have the <a href="/account_management/rbac/permissions/#monitors"><code>monitor_config_policy_write</code> permission</a> to create a rule.</div>
```

1. Navigate to [**Monitors > Settings > Notification Rules**][1].
1. Click **New Rule**.

> 1. Set the scope for the rule through specific tags. Notification rules use an AND logic for multiple tags. For an example of this, see [Routing logic](#routing-logic).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add specific tags and values to set the scope for the rule. Notification rules use an AND logic for multiple tags. For an example of this, see [Routing logic](#routing-logic).
```

1. Click **New Rule**.
1. Set the scope for the rule through specific tags. Notification rules use an AND logic for multiple tags. For an example of this, see [Routing logic](#routing-logic).
1. Add up to 50 notification recipients. Notifications can be sent to emails, Team channels, or Integration channels. For more information, see [Notifications][2].

> 1. Click **Create Rule**.

Reviewer 2: I think we should say to add a name before clicking on "Create Rule"

> {{< img src="/monitors/notifications/notification_rules/notification_rules_config.png" alt="Configuration for a notification rule, showing tag scopes, recipients, and matching monitors" style="width:100%;" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< img src="/monitors/notifications/notification_rules/notification_rules_config.png" alt="Configuration for a notification rule showing tag scopes, recipients, and matching monitors" style="width:100%;" >}}
```

{{< img src="/monitors/notifications/notification_rules/new_notification_rule.png" alt=" Configuration for a new notification rule, showing tag scopes, recipients, and matching monitors" style="width:100%;" >}}

## Managing notification rules

> ### From Monitor Settings

Reviewer 2: I think here we can add an image of the page and explain a bit what the different columns are. Most important one is the "Coverage" column
<img width="1512" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/759c765f-1bc8-4f3f-8dc7-5967bcdf418d" />

{{< img src="/monitors/notifications/notification_rules/settings_notification_rules.png" alt="List of notification rules in Monitor Settings" style="width:100%;" >}}

The [Monitor Notification Rules][1] page displays a table of all your notification rules with the following columns:

> - **Scopes**: Shows the tag combinations that define when this rule applies (for example, `team:shopist service:web-store env:prod`).

Reviewer: Name is missing

> - **Scopes**: Shows the tag combinations that define when this rule applies (for example, `team:shopist service:web-store env:prod`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Scope**: Shows the tag combinations that define when this rule applies (for example, `team:shopist service:web-store env:prod`).
```

> - **Teams**: Lists the teams that this notification rule is associated with (available only when the team tag is added in the scope)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Team**: Lists the teams that this notification rule is associated with (available only when the team tag is added in the scope)
```

- **Coverage**: Shows the number of monitors that match this rule's scopes. Use this to verify rule coverage and identify rules that need adjustment.

> - **Recipients**: Lists the notification channels (such as Slack or email) that will receive alerts when this rule matches.

Reviewer: Not sure if GA will be different, but in Org2 I see a column for `Notifies` but not `Recipients`. I do, however, see a `Recipients` dropdown. Perhaps for `Recipients` and `Actions` etc., you could add annotations to the screenshot.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Notifies**: Lists the notification channels (such as Slack or email) that will receive alerts when this rule matches.
```

### From an individual monitor

In your monitor configuration you can view the notification recipients that are applied to the monitor under **Configure response**. Notification rules automatically add recipients to monitors that match the configured scopes.

{{< img src="path/to/your/image-name-here.png" alt="TBD Recipient summary field showing the notification recipients applied by notification rules" style="width:100%;" >}}

## Routing logic

> Notification rules apply the recipients to all monitors that match the scopes in the rule configuration. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Notification rules apply the recipients to all monitor notifications that match the scopes in the rule configuration. 
```

> - **Actions**: Provides options to edit or delete each notification rule. Click the vertical three-dot menu on the notification rule and select **Edit** or **Delete**.

Reviewer: I can see why Actions is here, but since it's technically not a column, it feels a bit misleading to list it here as such. I would suggest adding a header for **Managing notification rules** or something like that.

- Multiple tags apply an AND logic to the scope.

> - Multiple rules can match with one monitor, all recipients are added to the monitor alert wthout duplication.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Multiple rules can match with one monitor notification, all recipients are added to the monitor alert without duplication.
```

> In your monitor configuration you can view the notification recipients that are applied to the monitor under **Recipient Summary**. Notification rules automatically add recipients to monitors that match the configured scopes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In your monitor configuration, you can view the notification recipients that are applied to the monitor under **Recipient Summary**. Notification rules automatically add recipients to monitors that match the configured scopes.
```

{{% collapse-content title="Example: Notification Rule Matching" level="h4" expanded=false %}}

The following table demonstrates how monitors with different tag combinations match notification rules and their resulting notifications. This table shows how:

> 1. Multiple notification rules can match a single monitor based on its tags.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Multiple notification rules can match a single monitor notification based on its tags.
```

> Notification rules apply the recipients to all monitor notifications that match the scopes in the rule configuration. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notification rules apply to recipients of all monitor notifications that match the scopes defined in the rule configuration. 
```

> - Multiple rules can match with one monitor notification, all recipients are added to the monitor alert without duplication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Multiple rules can match a single monitor notification, and all recipients are added to the monitor alert without duplication.
```

> The following table demonstrates how monitors with different tag combinations match notification rules and their resulting notifications. This table shows how:

Author: Thanks for the feedback @rtrieu, I update the table. We're working on a diagram to show how this works!

2. The AND logic works for multiple tags within a rule.
3. All matching notification rules contribute their recipients to the final notification list.
4. Recipients are deduplicated in the final notification list.

<table>
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th style="width: 20%">Alert Tags</th>
            <th colspan="6" style="text-align: center">Notification Rules</th>
            <th style="width: 20%">Notified Handles</th>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <th></th>

>             <th>Rule 1<br><code>team:shopist AND<br>service:web-store</code></th>

Reviewer 2: we will need to add also the handles per each rule otherwise is hard to follow the example (users might not understand where the handles in the last column are coming from)

Author: Update the table with handles!
